CHAIR POWELL. Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on
achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of
the American people. The U.S. economy has been expanding at a solid pace. While job gains
have remained low, the unemployment rate has been little changed in recent months, and
inflation remains somewhat elevated.
Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy rate unchanged. We see the current stance
of monetary policy as appropriate to promote progress toward our maximum-employment and
2 percent inflation goals. The implications of developments in the Middle East for the U.S.
economy are uncertain. We will remain attentive to risks to both sides of our dual mandate. And
I’ll have more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments.
Available indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a solid pace.
Consumer spending has been resilient, and business fixed investment has continued to expand.
In contrast, activity in the housing sector has remained weak. In our Summary of Economic
Projections, the median participant projects that real GDP will rise 2.4 percent this year and
2.3 percent next year, somewhat stronger than projected in December.
In the labor market, the unemployment rate was 4.4 percent in February and has changed
little since late last summer. Job gains have remained low. A good part of the slowing in the
pace of job growth over the past year reflects a decline in the growth of the labor force due to
lower immigration and labor force participation, though labor demand has clearly softened as
well. Other indicators, including job openings, layoffs, hiring, and nominal wage growth,
generally show little change in recent months. In our SEP, the median projection of the
unemployment rate is 4.4 percent at the end of this year and edges down thereafter.
March 18, 2026 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 2 of 25
Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid-2022 but remains somewhat
elevated relative to our 2 percent longer-run goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index
and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.8 percent over the 12 months ending
in February and that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices
rose 3.0 percent. These elevated readings largely reflect inflation in the goods sector, which has
been boosted by the effects of tariffs. Near-term measures of inflation expectations have risen in
recent weeks, likely reflecting the substantial rise in oil prices caused by the supply disruptions
in the Middle East. Most measures of longer-term expectations remain consistent with our
2 percent inflation goal. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation this year is
2.7 percent and 2.2 percent next year, a bit higher than projected in December.
Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee
decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 3½ to 3¾ percent.
From last September through December, we lowered our policy rate ¾ percentage point,
bringing it within a range of plausible estimates of neutral. This normalization of our policy
stance should continue to help stabilize the labor market while allowing inflation to resume its
downward trend toward 2 percent.
But the implications of events in the Middle East for the U.S. economy are uncertain. In
the near term, higher energy prices will push up overall inflation, but it is too soon to know the
scope and duration of the potential effects on the economy. We will continue to monitor the
risks to both sides of our mandate. We are well positioned to determine the extent and timing of
additional adjustments to our policy rate based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and
the balance of risks.
March 18, 2026 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 3 of 25
In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an
appropriate path of the federal funds rate under what each participant judges to be the most likely
scenario for the economy. The median participant projects that the appropriate level of the
federal funds rate will be 3.4 percent at the end of this year and 3.1 percent at the end of next
year, unchanged from December. As is always the case, these individual forecasts are subject to
uncertainty, and they are not a Committee plan or decision. Monetary policy is not on a preset
course, and we’ll make our decisions on a meeting-by-meeting basis.
To conclude: The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy—maximum
employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment,
bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation
expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans.
We at the Fed will continue to do our jobs with objectivity, integrity, and a deep commitment to
serve the American people