CHAIR POWELL. Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on
achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of
the American people. Despite elevated uncertainty, the economy is in a solid position. The
unemployment rate remains low, and the labor market is at or near maximum employment.
Inflation has come down a great deal but has been running somewhat above our 2 percent longer-
run objective.
In support of our goals, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our
policy interest rate unchanged. We believe that the current stance of monetary policy leaves us
well positioned to respond in a timely way to potential economic developments. I’ll have more
to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments.
Following growth of 2.5 percent last year, GDP was reported to have edged down in the
first quarter, reflecting swings in net exports that were driven by businesses bringing in imports
ahead of potential tariffs. This unusual swing has complicated GDP measurement. Private
domestic final purchases, or PDFP, as we call them—which excludes net exports, inventory
investment, and government spending—grew at a solid 2.5 percent rate. Within PDFP, growth
of consumer spending moderated, while investment in equipment and intangibles rebounded
from weakness in the fourth quarter. Surveys of households and businesses, however, report a
decline in sentiment over recent months and elevated uncertainty about the economic outlook,
largely reflecting trade policy concerns. It remains to be seen how these developments might
affect future spending and investment. In our Summary of Economic Projections, the median
participant projects GDP to rise 1.4 percent this year and 1.6 percent next year—somewhat
slower than projected in March.
June 18, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 2 of 28
In the labor market, conditions have remained solid. Payroll job gains averaged
135,000 per month over the past three months. The unemployment rate, at 4.2 percent, remains
low and has stayed in a narrow range for the past year. Wage growth has continued to moderate
while still outpacing inflation. Overall, a wide set of indicators suggests that conditions in the
labor market are broadly in balance and consistent with maximum employment. The labor
market is not a source of significant inflationary pressures. The median projection for the
unemployment rate in the SEP is 4.5 percent at the end of this year and next, a bit higher than
projected in March.
Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid-2022 but remains somewhat
elevated relative to our 2 percent longer-run goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index
and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.3 percent over the 12 months ending in May
and that—excluding the volatile food and energy categories—core PCE prices rose
2.6 percent. Near-term measures of inflation expectations have moved up over recent months, as
reflected in both market- and survey-based measures. Respondents to surveys of consumers,
businesses, and professional forecasters point to tariffs as the driving factor. Beyond the next
year or so, however, most measures of longer-term expectations remain consistent with our
2 percent inflation goal. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE inflation this year is—is
3 percent, somewhat higher than projected in March. The median inflation projection falls to
2.4 percent in 2026 and 2.1 percent in 2027.
Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee
decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent and to
continue reducing the size of our balance sheet. We will continue to determine the appropriate
June 18, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 3 of 28
stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of
risks.
Changes to trade, immigration, fiscal, and regulatory policies continue to evolve, and
their effects on the economy remain uncertain. The effects of tariffs will depend, among other
things, on their ultimate level. Expectations of that level, and thus of the related economic
effects, reached a peak in April and have since declined. Even so, increases in tariffs this year
are likely to push up prices and weigh on economic activity.
The effects on inflation could be short lived—reflecting a one-time shift in the price
level. It’s also possible that the inflationary effects could instead be more persistent. Avoiding
that outcome will depend on the size of the tariff effects, on how long it takes for them to pass
through fully into prices, and, ultimately, on keeping longer-term inflation expectations well
anchored.
Our obligation is to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored and to prevent
a one-time increase in the price level from becoming an ongoing inflation problem. As we act to
meet that obligation, we will balance our maximum-employment and price-stability mandates,
keeping in mind that, without price stability, we cannot achieve the long periods of strong labor
market conditions that benefit all Americans.
We may find ourselves in the challenging scenario in which our dual-mandate goals are
in tension. If that were to occur, we would consider how far the economy is from each goal and
the potentially different time horizons over which those respective gaps would be anticipated to
close. For the time being, we are well positioned to wait to learn more about the likely course of
the economy before considering any adjustments to our policy stance.
June 18, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 4 of 28
In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an
appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most
likely scenario going forward. The median projection projects—participant—median participant
projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.9 percent at the end of this
year, the same as projected in March. The median projection declines to 3.6 percent at the end of
next year and to 3.4 percent at the end of 2027, a little higher than the March projection. These
individual forecasts are always subject to uncertainty, and, as I have noted, uncertainty is
unusually elevated. And, of course, these projections are not a Committee plan or decision.
At this meeting, the Committee continued its discussions as part of our five-year review
of our monetary policy framework. We focused on issues related to assessing the risks and
uncertainties that are relevant for monetary policy and the potential implications for policy
strategy and communications. Our review includes outreach and public events involving a wide
range of parties, including Fed Listens events around the country and a research conference that
we held last month. We are open to new ideas and critical feedback, and we will take on board
lessons of the last five years in determining our findings. We intend to wrap up any
modifications to our Statement on Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy by late
summer. After that, we will consider enhancements to our suite of communications tools,
including the SEP.
The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy: maximum employment and
stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation
sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.
Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our
actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in
June 18, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 5 of 28
service to our public mission. And we at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our
maximum-employment and price-stability goals.