CHAIR POWELL. Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on
achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of
the American people. Our economy has made considerable progress toward both goals over the
past two years. The labor market has come into better balance, with continued strong job gains
and a low unemployment rate. Inflation has eased substantially from a peak of 7 percent to
2.7 percent but is still too high. We are strongly committed to returning inflation to our 2 percent
goal in support of a strong economy that benefits everyone.
Today, the FOMC decided to leave our policy interest rate unchanged and to continue to
reduce our securities holdings. We are maintaining our restrictive stance of monetary policy in
order to keep demand in line with supply and reduce inflationary pressures. I’ll have more to say
about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments.
Recent indicators suggest that economic activity has continued to expand at a solid pace.
Although GDP growth moderated from 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of last year to
1.3 percent in the first quarter, private domestic final purchases—which excludes inventory
investment, government spending, and net exports and usually sends a clearer signal on
underlying demand—grew at 2.8 percent in the first quarter, nearly as strong as the second half
of 2023. Growth of consumer spending has slowed from last year’s robust pace but remains
solid. And investment in equipment and intangibles has picked up from its anemic pace last
year. Improving supply conditions have supported resilient demand and the strong performance
of the U.S. economy over the past year. In our Summary of Economic Projections, Committee
participants generally expect GDP growth to slow from last year’s pace, with a median
projection of 2.1 percent this year and 2.0 percent over the next two years.
June 12, 2024 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 2 of 27
In the labor market, supply and demand conditions have come into better balance.
Payroll job gains averaged 218,000 jobs per month in April and May, a pace that is still strong
but a bit below that seen in the first quarter. The unemployment rate ticked up but remains low
at 4 percent. Strong job creation over the past couple of years has been accompanied by an
increase in the supply of workers, reflecting increases in participation among individuals aged 25
to 54 years and a continued strong pace of immigration. Nominal wage growth has eased over
the past year, and the jobs-to-workers gap has narrowed. Overall, a broad set of indicators
suggests that conditions in the labor market have returned to about where they stood on the eve
of the pandemic—relatively tight but not overheated. FOMC participants expect labor market
strength to continue. The median unemployment rate projection in the SEP is 4.0 percent at the
end of this year and 4.2 percent at the end of next year.
Inflation has eased notably over the past two years but remains above our longer-run goal
of 2 percent. Total PCE prices rose 2.7 percent over the 12 months ending in April; excluding
the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.8 percent. The consumer price
index—which came out this morning and tends to run higher than the PCE, PCE price index—
rose 3.3 percent over the 12 months ending in May, and the core CPI rose 3.4 percent. The
inflation data received earlier this year were higher than expected, though more recent monthly
readings have eased somewhat. Longer-term inflation expectations appear to remain well
anchored, as reflected in a broad range of surveys of households and businesses and forecasters,
as well as measures from financial markets. The median projection in the SEP for total PCE
inflation is 2.6 percent this year, 2.3 percent next year, and 2.0 percent in 2026.
My colleagues and I are acutely aware that high inflation imposes significant hardship, as
it erodes purchasing power, especially for those least able to meet the higher costs of essentials
June 12, 2024 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 3 of 27
like food, housing, and transportation. Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual
mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices for the American people. In
support of these goals, the Committee decided at today’s meeting to maintain the target range for
the federal funds rate at 5¼ to 5½ percent and to continue reducing our securities holdings. As
labor market tightness has eased and inflation has declined over the past year, the risks to
achieving our employment and inflation goals have moved toward better balance. The economic
outlook is uncertain, however, and we remain highly attentive to inflation risks.
We’ve stated that we do not expect it will be appropriate to reduce the target range for the
federal funds rate until we have gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably
toward 2 percent. So far this year, the data have not given us that greater confidence. The most
recent inflation readings have been more favorable than earlier in the year, however, and there
has been modest further progress toward our inflation objective. We will need to see more good
data to bolster our confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2 percent.
We know that reducing policy restraint too soon or too much could result in a reversal of
the progress that we’ve seen on inflation. At the same time, reducing policy restraint too late or
too little could unduly weaken economic activity and employment. In considering any
adjustments to the target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee will carefully assess
incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks.
In our SEP, FOMC participants wrote down their individual assessments of an
appropriate path for the federal funds rate, based on what each participant judges to be the most
likely scenario going forward. If the economy evolves as expected, the median participant
projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 5.1 percent at the end of this
year, 4.1 percent at the end of 2025, and 3.1 percent at the end of 2026. But these projections are
June 12, 2024 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 4 of 27
not a Committee plan or any kind of a decision. As the economy evolves, assessments of the
appropriate policy, policy path will adjust in order to best promote our maximum-employment
and price-stability goals. If the economy remains solid and inflation persists, we’re prepared to
maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate as long as appropriate. If the labor
market were to weaken unexpectedly or if inflation were to fall more quickly than anticipated,
we’re prepared to respond. Policy is well positioned to deal with the risks and uncertainties that
we face in pursuing both sides of our dual mandate. We’ll continue to make our decisions
meeting by meeting, based on the totality of the data and its implications for the outlook and the
balance of risks.
The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy—maximum employment and
stable prices. We remain committed to bringing inflation back down to our 2 percent goal and to
keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored. Restoring price stability is essential to
achieving maximum employment and stable prices over the long run. Our success in delivering
on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our actions affect communities,
families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in service to our public
mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our maximum-employment and
price-stability goals