CHAIR POWELL. Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on
achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of
the American people. Despite elevated uncertainty, the economy is in a solid position. The
unemployment rate remains low, and the labor market is at or near maximum employment.
Inflation has been running somewhat above our 2 percent longer-run objective.
In support of our goals, today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to leave our
policy interest rate unchanged. We believe that the current stance of monetary policy leaves us
well positioned to respond in a timely way to potential economic developments. I will have
more to say about monetary policy after briefly reviewing economic developments.
Recent indicators suggest that growth of economic activity has moderated. GDP rose at a
1.2 percent pace in the first half of this year, down from 2.5 percent last year. Although the
increase in the second quarter was stronger at 3 percent, focusing on the first half of the year
helps smooth through the volatility in the quarterly figures related to the unusual swings in net
exports. The moderation in growth largely reflects a slowdown in consumer spending. In
contrast, business investment in equipment and intangibles picked up from last year’s pace.
Activity in the housing sector remains weak.
In the labor market, conditions have remained solid. Payroll job gains averaged
150,000 per month over the past three months. The unemployment rate, at 4.1 percent, remains
low and has stayed in a narrow range over the past year. Wage growth has continued to
moderate while still outpacing inflation. Overall, a wide set of indicators suggests that
conditions in the labor market are broadly in balance and consistent with maximum employment.
July 30, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 2 of 24
Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid-2022 but remains somewhat
elevated relative to our 2 percent longer-run goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index
and other data indicate that total PCE prices rose 2.5 percent over the 12 months ending in June
and that, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose
2.7 percent. These readings are little changed from the beginning of the year, although the
underlying composition of price changes has shifted: Services inflation has continued to ease,
while increased tariffs are pushing up prices in some categories of goods. Near-term measures of
inflation expectations have moved up, on balance, over the course of this year on news about
tariffs, as reflected in both market-based and survey-based measures. Beyond the next year or
so, however, most measures of longer-term expectations remain consistent with our 2 percent
inflation goal.
Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee
decided to maintain the target range for the federal funds rate at 4¼ to 4½ percent and to
continue reducing the size of our balance sheet. We will continue to determine the appropriate
stance of monetary policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of
risks.
Changes to government policies continue to evolve, and their effects on the economy
remain uncertain. Higher tariffs have begun to show through more clearly to prices of some
goods, but their overall effects on economic activity and inflation remain to be seen. A
reasonable base case is that the effects on inflation could be short lived—reflecting a one-time
shift in the price level. But it is also possible that the inflationary effects could instead be more
persistent, and that is a risk to be assessed and managed.
July 30, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 3 of 24
Our obligation is to keep longer-term inflation expectations well anchored and to prevent
a one-time increase in the price level from becoming an ongoing inflation problem. For the time
being, we are well positioned to learn more about the likely course of the economy and the
evolving balance of risks before adjusting our policy stance. We see our current policy stance as
appropriate to guard against inflation risks. We are also attentive to risks on the employment
side of our mandate. In coming months, we will receive a good amount of data that will help
inform our assessment of the balance of risks and the appropriate setting of the federal funds
rate.
At this meeting, the Committee continued its discussions as part of our five-year review
of our monetary policy framework. We focused on potential revisions to our Statement on
Longer-Run Goals and Monetary Policy Strategy and are on track to wrap up any modifications
by late summer.
The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy—maximum employment and
price—stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing
inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well
anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand
that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we
do is in service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our
maximum-employment and price-stability goals