CHAIR POWELL. Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on
achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of
the American people. Although some important federal government data have been delayed due
to the shutdown, the public- and private-sector data that have remained available suggest that the
outlook for employment and inflation has not changed much since our meeting in September.
Conditions in the labor market appear to be gradually cooling, and inflation remains somewhat
elevated.
In support of our goals, and in light of the balance of risks to employment and inflation,
today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to lower our policy interest rate by
¼ percentage point. We also decided to conclude the reduction of our aggregate securities
holdings as of December 1. I will have more to say about monetary policy after briefly
reviewing economic developments.
Available indicators suggest that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate
pace. GDP rose at a 1.6 percent pace in the first half of the year, down from 2.4 percent last
year. Data available prior to the shutdown show that growth in economic activity may be on a
somewhat firmer trajectory than expected, primarily reflecting stronger consumer spending.
Business investment in equipment and intangibles has continued to expand, while activity in the
housing sector remains weak. The shutdown of the federal government will weigh on economic
activity while it persists, but these effects should reverse after the shutdown ends.
In the labor market, the unemployment rate remained relatively low through August. Job
gains have slowed significantly since earlier in the year. A good part of the slowing likely
reflects a decline in the growth of the labor force due to lower immigration and labor force
October 29, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 2 of 28
participation, though labor demand has clearly softened as well. Although official employment
data for September are delayed, available evidence suggests that both layoffs and hiring remain
low, and that both households’ perceptions of job availability and firms’ perceptions of hiring
difficulty continue to decline. In this less dynamic and somewhat softer labor market, the
downside risks to employment appear to have risen in recent months.
Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid-2022 but remains somewhat
elevated relative to our 2 percent longer-run goal. Estimates based on the consumer price index
suggest that total PCE prices rose 2.8 percent over the 12 months ending in September and that,
excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices rose 2.8 percent as well.
These readings are higher than earlier in the year, as inflation for goods has picked up. In
contrast, disinflation appears to be continuing for services. Near-term measures of inflation
expectations have moved up, on balance, over the course of this year on news about tariffs, as
reflected in both market- and survey-based measures. Beyond the next year or so, however, most
measures of longer-term expectations remain consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal.
Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee
decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point to 3¾ to
4 percent.
Higher tariffs are pushing up prices in some categories of goods, resulting in higher
overall inflation. A reasonable base case is that the effects on inflation will be relatively short
lived—a one-time shift in the price level. But it is also possible that the inflationary effects
could instead be more persistent, and that is a risk to be assessed and managed. Our obligation is
October 29, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 3 of 28
to ensure that a one-time increase in the price level does not become an ongoing inflation
problem.
In the near term, risks to inflation are tilted to the upside and risks to employment to the
downside—a challenging situation. There is no risk-free path for policy as we navigate this
tension between our employment and inflation goals. Our framework calls for us to take a
balanced approach in promoting both sides of our dual mandate. With downside risks to
employment having increased in recent months, the balance of risks has shifted. Accordingly,
we judged it appropriate at this meeting to take another step toward a more neutral policy stance.
With today’s decision, we remain well positioned to respond in a timely way to potential
economic developments. We will continue to determine the appropriate stance of monetary
policy based on the incoming data, the evolving outlook, and the balance of risks. We continue
to face two-sided risks. In the Committee’s discussions at this meeting, there were strongly
differing views about how to proceed in December. A further reduction in the policy rate at the
December meeting is not a foregone conclusion—far from it. Policy is not on a preset course.
At today’s meeting, the Committee also decided to conclude the reduction of our
aggregate securities holdings as of December 1. Our long-stated plan has been to stop balance
sheet runoff when reserves are somewhat above the level we judge consistent with ample reserve
conditions. Signs have clearly emerged that we have reached that standard. In money markets,
repo rates have moved up relative to our administered rates, and we have seen more notable
pressures on selected dates along with more use of our standing repo facility. In addition, the
effective federal funds rate has begun to move up relative to the rate of interest on reserve
balances. These developments are what we expected to see as the size of our balance sheet
declined and warrant today’s decision to cease runoff.
October 29, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 4 of 28
Over the three and a half years that we have been shrinking our balance sheet, our
securities holdings have declined by $2.2 trillion. As a share of nominal GDP, our balance sheet
has fallen from 35 percent to about 21 percent. In December, we will enter the next phase of our
normalization plans by holding the size of our balance sheet steady for a time while reserve
balances continue to move gradually lower as other nonreserve liabilities such as currency keep
growing. We will continue to allow agency securities to run off our balance sheet and will
reinvest the proceeds from those securities in Treasury bills, furthering progress toward a
portfolio consisting primarily of Treasury securities. This reinvestment strategy will also help
move the weighted average maturity of our portfolio closer to that of the outstanding stock of
Treasury securities, thus furthering the normalization of the composition of our balance sheet.
The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy—maximum employment and
stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment, bringing inflation
sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation expectations well anchored.
Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans. We understand that our
actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country. Everything we do is in
service to our public mission. We at the Fed will do everything we can to achieve our
maximum-employment and price-stability goals