CHAIR POWELL. Good afternoon. My colleagues and I remain squarely focused on
achieving our dual-mandate goals of maximum employment and stable prices for the benefit of
the American people. Although important federal government data for the past couple of months
have yet to be released, available public- and private-sector data suggest that the outlook for
employment and inflation has not changed much since our meeting in October. Conditions in the
labor market appear to be gradually cooling, and inflation remains somewhat elevated.
In support of our goals, and in light of the balance of risks to employment and inflation,
today the Federal Open Market Committee decided to lower our policy interest rate by
¼ percentage point. As a separate matter, we also decided to initiate purchases of shorter-term
Treasury securities solely for the purpose of maintaining an ample supply of reserves over time,
thus supporting effective control of our policy rate. I will have more to say about monetary
policy and its implementation after briefly reviewing economic developments.
Although some key government data have yet to be released, available indicators suggest
that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace. Consumer spending appears to
have remained solid, and business fixed investment has continued to expand. In contrast,
activity in the housing sector remains weak. The temporary shutdown of the federal government
has likely weighed on economic activity in the current quarter, but these effects should be mostly
offset by higher growth next quarter, reflecting the reopening. In our Summary of Economic
Projections, the median participant projects that real GDP will rise 1.7 percent this year and
2.3 percent next year, somewhat stronger than projected in September.
In the labor market, although official employment data for October and November are
delayed, available evidence suggests that both layoffs and hiring remain low, and that both
December 10, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 2 of 27
households’ perceptions of job availability and firms’ perceptions of hiring difficulty continue to
decline. The official report on the labor market for September, the most recent release, showed
that the unemployment rate continued to edge up, reaching 4.4 percent, and that job gains had
slowed significantly since earlier in the year. A good part of the slowing likely reflects a decline
in the growth of the labor force due to lower immigration and labor force participation, though
labor demand has clearly softened as well. In this less dynamic and somewhat softer labor
market, the downside risks to employment appear to have risen in recent months. In our SEP,
the median projection of the unemployment rate is 4.5 percent at the end of this year and edges
down thereafter.
Inflation has eased significantly from its highs in mid-2022 but remains somewhat
elevated relative to our 2 percent longer-run goal. Very little data on inflation have been
released since our meeting in October. Total PCE prices rose 2.8 percent over the 12 months
ending in September, and, excluding the volatile food and energy categories, core PCE prices
also rose 2.8 percent. These readings are higher than earlier in the year, as inflation for goods
has picked up, reflecting the effects of tariffs. In contrast, disinflation appears to be continuing
for services. Near-term measures of inflation expectations have declined from their peaks earlier
in the year, as reflected in both market- and survey-based measures. Most measures of longer-
term expectations remain consistent with our 2 percent inflation goal. The median projection in
the SEP for total PCE inflation is 2.9 percent this year and 2.4 percent next year, a bit lower than
the median projection in September. Thereafter, the median falls to 2 percent.
Our monetary policy actions are guided by our dual mandate to promote maximum
employment and stable prices for the American people. At today’s meeting, the Committee
December 10, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 3 of 27
decided to lower the target range for the federal funds rate by ¼ percentage point to 3½ to
3¾ percent.
In the near term, risks to inflation are tilted to the upside and risks to employment to the
downside—a challenging situation. There is no risk-free path for policy as we navigate this
tension between our employment and inflation goals. A reasonable base case is that the effects
of tariffs on inflation will be relatively short lived—effectively a one-time shift in the price level.
Our obligation is to make sure that a one-time increase in the price level does not become an
ongoing inflation problem. But, with downside risks to employment having risen in recent
months, the balance of risks has shifted. Our framework calls for us to take a balanced approach
in promoting both sides of our dual mandate. Accordingly, we judged it appropriate at this
meeting to lower our policy rate by ¼ percentage point.
With today’s decision, we have lowered our policy rate ¾ percentage point over our last
three meetings. This further normalization of our policy stance should help stabilize the labor
market while allowing inflation to resume its downward trend toward 2 percent once the effects
of tariffs have passed through. The adjustments to our policy stance since September bring it
within a range of plausible estimates of neutral and leave us well positioned to determine the
extent and timing of additional adjustments to our policy rate based on the incoming data, the
evolving outlook, and the balance of risks.
In our Summary of Economic Projections, FOMC participants wrote down their
individual assessments of an appropriate path of the federal funds rate under what each
participant judges to be the most likely scenario for the economy. The median participant
projects that the appropriate level of the federal funds rate will be 3.4 percent at the end of 2026
and 3.1 percent at the end of 2027, unchanged from September. As is always the case, these
December 10, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 4 of 27
individual forecasts are subject to uncertainty, and they are not a Committee plan or decision.
Monetary policy is not on a preset course, and we will make our decisions on a meeting-by-
meeting basis.
Let me turn now to issues related to the implementation of monetary policy, with the
reminder that these issues are separate from—and have no implications for—the stance of
monetary policy. In light of the continued tightening in money market interest rates relative to
our administered rates, and other indicators of reserve market conditions, the Committee judged
that reserve balances have declined to ample levels. Accordingly, at today’s meeting, the
Committee decided to initiate purchases of shorter-term Treasury securities—mainly Treasury
bills—for the sole purpose of maintaining an ample supply of reserves over time. Such increases
in our securities holdings ensure that the federal funds rate remains within its target range and are
necessary because the growth of the economy leads to rising demand over time for our liabilities,
including currency and reserves. As detailed in a statement released today by the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, reserve management purchases will amount to $40 billion in the
first month and may remain elevated for a few months to alleviate expected near-term pressures
in money markets. Thereafter, we expect the size of reserve management purchases to decline,
though the actual pace will depend on market conditions.
In our implementation framework, an ample supply of reserves means that the federal
funds rate and other short-term interest rates are primarily controlled by the setting of our
administered rates rather than day-to-day discretionary interventions in money markets. In this
regime, standing repurchase agreement, or repo, operations are a critical tool to ensure that the
federal funds rate remains within its target range, even on days of elevated pressures in money
markets. Consistent with this view, the Committee eliminated the aggregate limit on standing
December 10, 2025 Chair Powell’s Press Conference FINAL
Page 5 of 27
repo operations. These operations are intended to support monetary policy implementation and
smooth market functioning and should be used when economically sensible.
To conclude: The Fed has been assigned two goals for monetary policy: maximum
employment and stable prices. We remain committed to supporting maximum employment,
bringing inflation sustainably to our 2 percent goal, and keeping longer-term inflation
expectations well anchored. Our success in delivering on these goals matters to all Americans.
We understand that our actions affect communities, families, and businesses across the country.
Everything we do is in service to our public mission. At the Fed, we will do everything we can
to achieve our maximum-employment and price-stability goals